---
layout: default
title:  "Structuring Grape API"
date:   2017-05-24 19:56:00 +0800
---

Most of the information on Grape gem (Ruby) is very limited and they do not show you how to structure your API versions.

But some of you would probably ask me, "Why use Grape gem when you have the new rails-api integration with Rails 5"?

As far as a understood, if you want to use rails-api (the gem, not the`baked in rails 5 --api flag) with a server-side render so you have both an API and WebApp running as a monilithic app. But i prefer grape gem as it is more flexible (AFAIK) and has a great community.

Assuming you have the Grape gem installed in your Rails 5 app:

Add this code into `config/application.rb` and restart your app:
```
    config.paths.add File.join('app', 'api'), glob: File.join('**', '*.rb')
    config.autoload_paths += Dir[Rails.root.join('app', 'api', '*')]
```

Now,
1. Create the directory *api* in `app`
2. Create a file called `api.rb` in the api directory.
3. In this api.rb file you should have at least the code:
```
class API < Grape::API
  insert_after Grape::Middleware::Formatter, Grape::Middleware::Logger
  format :json # required to set default all to json
  mount V1::Base => '/v1'
end
```

In the future, if you figured you want to have a second version (ie. V2), you can directly mount the new API with new V2 code.

Next, create V1 directory *within* the *API* directory:
`mkdir v1`

Now, at the v1 directory, we will have *base.rb* which is the root where you specity all your API endpoints for *V1*.

Your *base.rb* should be configured like below:
```
module V1
  class Base < Grape::API
    mount Products::Data
  end
end
```

You can mount as many endpoints as you wish, but i am adding one only for demonstration.

Next, create a "products" directory (assuming you have a model called **Product**) *WITHIN* the *v1* directory: `mkdir products`

In the products directory, create a file called `data.rb` with the following contents:

```
module V1
  module Products
    class Data < Grape::API

      resource :products do
        desc 'List all Products'
        get do
          Product.all
        end

        desc 'Show specific product'
        get ':id' do
          Product.find(params[:id])
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

That's it! You can try the good old curl to test it out!

`curl http://localhost:3000/api/v1/products`
